# Changelog

## Next (YYYY-MM-DD)

## v3.0.1 (2023-11-29)

## v3.0.0 (2023-11-26)

### General

- Crate is more oriented around `Watchexec` the core experience rather than providing the kitchensink / components so you could build your own from the pieces; that helps the cohesion of the whole and simplifies many patterns.
- Deprecated items (mostly leftover from splitting out the `watchexec_events` and `watchexec_signals` crates) are removed.
- Watchexec can now supervise multiple commands at once. See [Action](#Action) below, the [Action docs](https://docs.rs/watchexec/latest/watchexec/action/struct.Action.html), and the [Supervisor docs](https://docs.rs/watchexec-supervisor) for more.
- Because of this new feature, the one where multiple commands could be set under the one supervisor is removed.
- Watchexec's supervisor was split up into its own crate, [`watchexec-supervisor`](https://docs.rs/watchexec-supervisor).
- Tokio requirement is now 1.33.
- Notify was upgraded to 6.0.
- Nix was upgraded to 0.27.

### `Watchexec`

- `Watchexec::new()` now takes the `on_action` handler. As this is the most important handler to define and Watchexec will not be functional without one, that enforces providing it first.
- `Watchexec::with_config()` lets one provide a config upfront, otherwise the default values are used.
- `Watchexec::default()` is mostly used to avoid boilerplate in doc comment examples, and panics on initialisation errors.
- `Watchexec::reconfigure()` is removed. Use the public `config` field instead to access the "live" `Arc<Config>` (see below).
- Completion events aren't emitted anymore. They still exist in the Event enum, but they're not generated by Watchexec itself. Use `Job#to_wait` instead. Of course you can insert them as synthetic events if you want.

### Config

- `InitConfig` and `RuntimeConfig` have been unified into a single `Config` struct.
- Instead of module-specific `WorkingData` structures, all of the config is now flat in the same `Config`. That makes it easier to work with as all that's needed is to pass an `Arc<Config>` around, but it does mean the event sources are no longer independent.
- Instead of using `tokio::sync::watch` for some values, and `HandlerLock` for handlers, and so on, everything is now a new `Changeable` type, specialised to `ChangeableFn` for closures and `ChangeableFilterer` for the Filterer.
- There's now a `signal_change()` method which must be called after changes to the config; this is taken care of when using the methods on `Config`. This is required for the few places in Watchexec which need active reconfiguration rather than reading config values just-in-time.
- The above means that instead of using `Watchexec::reconfigure()` and keeping a clone of the config around, an `Arc<Config>` is now "live" and changes applied to it will affect the Watchexec instance directly.
- `command` / `commands` are removed from config. Instead use the Action handler API for creating new supervised commands.
- `command_grouped` is removed from config. That's now an option set on `Command`.
- `action_throttle` is renamed to `throttle` and now defaults to `50ms`, which is the default in Watchexec CLI.
- `keyboard_emit_eof` is renamed to `keyboard_events`.
- `pre_spawn_handler` is removed. Use `Job#set_spawn_hook` instead.
- `post_spawn_handler` is removed. Use `Job#run` instead.

### Command

The structure has been reworked to be simpler and more extensible. Instead of a Command _enum_, there's now a Command _struct_, which holds a single `Program` and behaviour-altering options. `Shell` has also been redone, with less special-casing.

If you had:

```rust
Command::Exec {
    prog: "date".into(),
    args: vec!["+%s".into()],
}
```

You should now write:

```rust
Command {
    program: Program::Exec {
        prog: "date".into(),
        args: vec!["+%s".into()],
    },
    options: Default::default(),
}
```

The new `Program::Shell` field `args: Vec<String>` lets you pass (trailing) arguments to the shell invocation:

```rust
Program::Shell {
    shell: Shell::new("sh"),
    command: "ls".into(),
    args: vec!["--".into(), "movies".into()],
}
```

is equivalent to:

```console
$ sh -c "ls" -- movies
```

- The old `args` field of `Command::Shell` is now the `options` field of `Shell`.
- `Shell` has a new field `program_option: Option<Cow<OsStr>>` which is the syntax of the option used to provide the command. Ie for most shells it's `-c` and for `CMD.EXE` it's `/C`; this makes it fully customisable (including its absence!) if you want to use weird shells or non-shell programs as shells.
- The special-cased `Shell::Powershell` is removed.
- On Windows, arguments are specified with [`raw_arg`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/os/windows/process/trait.CommandExt.html#tymethod.raw_arg) instead of `arg` to avoid quoting issues.
- `Command` can no longer take a list of programs. That was always quite a hack; now that multiple supervised commands are possible, that's how multiple programs should be handled.
- The top-level Watchexec `command_grouped` option is now Command-level, so you can start both grouped and non-grouped programs.
- There's a new `reset_sigmask` option to control whether commands should have their signal masks reset on Unix. By default the signal mask is inherited.

### Errors

- `RuntimeError::NoCommands`, `RuntimeError::Handler`, `RuntimeError::HandlerLockHeld`, and `CriticalError::MissingHandler` are removed as the relevant types/structures don't exist anymore.
- `RuntimeError::CommandShellEmptyCommand` and `RuntimeError::CommandShellEmptyShell` are removed; you can construct `Shell` with empty shell program and `Program::Shell` with an empty command, these will at best do nothing but they won't error early through Watchexec.
- `RuntimeError::ClearScreen` is removed, as clearing the screen is now done by the consumer of Watchexec, not Watchexec itself.
- Watchexec will now panic if locks are poisoned; we can't recover from that.
- The filesystem watcher's "too many files", "too many handles", and other initialisation errors are removed as `RuntimeErrors`, and are now `CriticalErrors`. These being runtime, nominally recoverable errors instead of end-the-world failures is one of the most common pitfalls of using the library, and though recovery _is_ technically possible, it's better approached other ways.
- The `on_error` handler is now sync only and no longer returns a `Result`; as such there's no longer the weird logic of "if the `on_error` handler errors, it will call itself on the error once, then crash".
- If you were doing async work in `on_error`, you should instead use non-async calls (like `try_send()` for Tokio channels). The error handler is expected to return as fast as possible, and _not_ do blocking work if it can at all avoid it; this was always the case but is now documented more explicitly.
- Error diagnostic codes are removed.

### Action

The process supervision system is entirely reworked. Instead of "applying `Outcome`s", there's now a `Job` type which is a single supervised command, provided by the separate [`watchexec-supervisor`](https://docs.rs/watchexec-supervisor) crate. The Action handler itself can only create new jobs and list existing ones, and interaction with commands is done through the `Job` type.

The controls available on `Job` are now modeled on "real" supervisors like systemd, and are both more and less powerful than the old `Outcome` system. This can be seen clearly in how a "restart" is specified. Previously, this was an `Outcome` combinator:

```rust
Outcome::if_running(
    Outcome::both(Outcome::stop(), Outcome::start()),
    Outcome::start(),
)
```

Now, it's a discrete method:

```rust
job.restart();
```

Previously, a graceful stop was a mess:

```rust
Outcome::if_running(
    Outcome::both(
        Outcome::both(
            Outcome::signal(Signal::Terminate),
            Outcome::wait_timeout(Duration::from_secs(30)),
        ),
        Outcome::both(Outcome::stop(), Outcome::start()),
    ),
    Outcome::DoNothing,
)
```

Now, it's again a discrete method:

```rust
job.stop_with_signal(Signal::Terminate, Duration::from_secs(30));
```

The `stop()` and `start()` methods also do nothing if the process is already stopped or started, respectively, so you don't need to check the status of the job before calling them. The `try_restart()` method is available to do a restart only if the job is running, with the `try_restart_with_signal()` variant for graceful restarts.

Further, all of these methods are non-blocking sync (and take `&self`), but they return a `Ticket`, a future which resolves when the control has been processed. That can be dropped if you don't care about it without affecting the job, or used to perform more advanced flow control. The special `to_wait()` method returns a detached, cloneable, "wait()" future, which will resolve when the process exits, without needing to hold on to the `Job` or a reference at all.

See the [`restart_run_on_successful_build` example](./examples/restart_run_on_successful_build.rs) which starts a `cargo build`, waits for it to end, and then (re)starts `cargo run` if the build exited successfully.

Finally: `Outcome::Clear` and `Outcome::Reset` are gone, and there's no equivalent on `Job`: that's because these are screen control actions, not job control. You should use the [clearscreen](https://docs.rs/clearscreen) crate directly in your action handler, in conjunction with job control, to achieve the desired effect.

## v2.3.0 (2023-03-22)

- New: `Outcome::Race` and `Outcome::race()` ([#548](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/548))
- New: `Outcome::wait_timeout()` ([#548](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/548))
- New: `Outcome::sequence()` ([#548](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/548))
- Fix: `kill_on_drop(true)` set for group commands as well as ungrouped ([#549](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/549))
- Some `debug!`s upgraded to `info!`s, based on experience reading logs ([#547](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/547))

## v2.2.0 (2023-03-18)

- Ditch MSRV policy. The `rust-version` indication will remain, for the minimum estimated Rust version for the code features used in the crate's own code, but dependencies may have already moved on. From now on, only latest stable is assumed and tested for. ([#510](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/510))
- Split off `watchexec-events` and `watchexec-signals` crates.
- Unify `SubSignal` and `MainSignal` into a new `Signal` type. The former types and paths exist as deprecated aliases/re-exports.

## v2.1.1 (2023-02-14)

## v2.1.0 (2023-01-08)

- MSRV: bump to 1.61.0
- Deps: drop explicit dependency on `libc` on Unix.
- Internal: remove all usage of `dunce`, replaced with either Tokio's `canonicalize` (properly async) or [normalize-path](https://docs.rs/normalize-path) (performs no I/O).
- Internal: drop support code for Fuchsia. MIO already didn't support it, so it never compiled there.
- Add `#[must_use]` annotations to a bunch of functions.
- Add missing `Send` bound to `HandlerLock`.
- Add new keyboard event source; initially supports just detecting EOF on STDIN. ([#449](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/449))
- Fix `summarise_events_to_env` on Windows to output paths with backslashes.

## v2.0.2 (2022-09-07)

- Deps: upgrade to miette 5.3.0

## v2.0.1 (2022-09-07)

- Deps: upgrade to Notify 5.0.0

## v2.0.0 (2022-06-17)

First "stable" release of the library.

- **Change: the library is split into even more crates**
    - Two new low-level crates, `project-origins` and `ignore-files`, extract standalone functionality
    - Filterers are now separate crates, so they can evolve independently (faster) to the main library crate
    - These five new crates live in the watchexec monorepo, rather than being completely separate like `command-group` and `clearscreen`
    - This makes the main library bit less likely to change as often as it did, so it was finally time to release 2.0.0!

- **Change: the Action worker now launches a set of Commands**
    - A new type `Command` replaces and augments `Shell`, making explicit which style of calling will be used
    - The action working data now takes a `Vec<Command>`, so multiple commands to be run as a set
    - Commands in the set are run sequentially, with an error interrupting the sequence
    - It is thus possible to run both "shelled" and "raw exec" commands in a set
    - `PreSpawn` and `PostSpawn` handlers are run per Command, not per command set
    - This new style should be preferred over sending command lines like `cmd1 && cmd2`

- **Change: the event queue is now a priority queue**
    - Shutting down the runtime is faster and more predictable. No more hanging after hitting Ctrl-C if there's tonnes of events coming in!
    - Signals sent to the main process have higher priority
    - Events marked "urgent" skip filtering entirely
    - SIGINT, SIGTERM, and Ctrl-C on Windows are marked urgent
        - This means it's no longer possible to accidentally filter these events out
        - They still require handling in `on_action` to do anything
    - The API for the `Filterer` trait changes slightly to let filterers use event priority

- Improvement: the main subtasks of the runtime are now aborted on error
- Improvement: the event queue is explicitly closed when shutting down
- Improvement: the action worker will check if the event queue is closed more often, to shutdown early
- Improvement: `kill_on_drop` is set on Commands, which will be a little more eager to terminate processes when we're done with them
- Feature: `Outcome::Sleep` waits for a given duration ([#79](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/issues/79))

Other miscellaneous:

- Deps: add the `log` feature to tracing so logs can be emitted to `log` subscribers
- Deps: upgrade to Tokio 1.19
- Deps: upgrade to Miette 4
- Deps: upgrade to Notify 5.0.0-pre.15

- Docs: fix the main example in lib.rs ([#297](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/297))
- Docs: describe a tuple argument in the globset filterer interface
- Docs: the library crate gains a file-based CHANGELOG.md (and won't go in the Github releases tab anymore)
- Docs: the library's readme's code block example is now checked as a doc-test

- Meta: PRs are now merged by Bors

## v2.0.0-pre.14 (2022-04-04)

- Replace git2 dependency by git-config ([#267](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/267)). This makes using the library more pleasant and will also avoid library version mismatch errors when the libgit2 library updates on the system.

## v2.0.0-pre.13 (2022-03-18)

- Revert backend switch on mac from previous release. We'll do it a different way later ([#269](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/issues/269))

## v2.0.0-pre.12 (2022-03-16)

- Upgraded to [Notify pre.14](https://github.com/notify-rs/notify/releases/tag/5.0.0-pre.14)
- Internal change: kqueue backend is used on mac. This _should_ reduce or eliminate some old persistent bugs on mac, and improve response times, but please report any issues you have!
- `Watchexec::new()` now reports the library's version at debug level
- Notify version is now specified with an exact (`=`) requirement, to avoid breakage ([#266](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/issues/266))

## v2.0.0-pre.11 (2022-03-07)

- New `error::FsWatcherError` enum split off from `RuntimeError`, and with additional variants to take advantage of targeted help text for known inotify errors on Linux
- Help text is now carried through elevated errors properly
- Globset filterer: `extensions` and `filters` are now cooperative rather than exclusionary. That is, a filters of `["Gemfile"]` and an extensions of `["js", "rb"]` will match _both_ `Gemfile` and `index.js` rather than matching nothing at all. This restores pre 2.0 behaviour.
- Globset filterer: on unix, a filter of `*/file` will match both `file` and `dir/file` instead of just `dir/file`. This is a compatibility fix and is incorrect behaviour which will be removed in the future. Do not rely on it.

## v2.0.0-pre.10 (2022-02-07)

- The `on_error` handler gets an upgraded parameter which lets it upgrade (runtime) errors to critical.
- `summarize_events_to_paths` now deduplicates paths within each variable.

## v2.0.0-pre.9 (2022-01-31)

- `Action`, `PreSpawn`, and `PostSpawn` structs passed to handlers now contain an `Arc<[Event]>` instead of an `Arc<Vec<Event>>`
- `Outcome` processing (the final bit of an action) now runs concurrently, so it doesn't block further event processing ([#247](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/issues/247), and to a certain extent, [#241](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/issues/241))

## v2.0.0-pre.8 (2022-01-26)

- Fix: globset filterer should pass all non-path events ([#248](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/248))

## v2.0.0-pre.7 (2022-01-26) [YANKED]

**Yanked for critical bug in globset filterer (fixed in pre.8) on 2022-01-26**

- Fix: typo in logging/errors ([#242](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/pull/242))
- Globset: an extension filter should fail all paths that are about folders ([#244](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/issues/244))
- Globset: in the case of an event with multiple paths, any pass should pass the entire event
- Removal: `filter::check_glob` and `error::GlobParseError`

## v2.0.0-pre.6 (2022-01-19)

First version of library v2 that was used in a CLI release.

- Globset filterer was erroneously passing files with no extension when an extension filter was specified

## v2.0.0-pre.5 (2022-01-18)

- Update MSRV (to 1.58) and policy (bump incurs minor semver only)
- Some bugfixes around canonicalisation of paths
- Eliminate context-less IO errors
- Move error types around
- Prep library readme
- Update deps

## v2.0.0-pre.4 (2022-01-16)

- More logging, especially around ignore file discovery and filtering
- The const `paths::PATH_SEPARATOR` is now public, being `:` on Unix and `;` and Windows.
- Add Subversion to discovered ProjectTypes
- Add common (sub)Filterer for ignore files, so they benefit from a single consistent implementation. This also makes ignore file discovery correct and efficient by being able to interpret ignore files which searching for ignore files, or in other words, _not_ descending into directories which are ignored.
- Integrate this new IgnoreFilterer into the GlobsetFilterer and TaggedFilterer. This does mean that some old v1 behaviour of patterns in gitignores will not behave quite the same now, but that was arguably always a bug. The old "buggy" v1 behaviour around folder filtering remains for manual filters, which are those most likely to be surprising if "fixed".

## v2.0.0-pre.3 (2021-12-29)

- [`summarise_events_to_env`](https://docs.rs/watchexec/2.0.0-pre.3/watchexec/paths/fn.summarise_events_to_env.html) used to return `COMMON_PATH`, it now returns `COMMON`, in keeping with the other variable names.

## v2.0.0-pre.2 (2021-12-29)

- [`summarise_events_to_env`](https://docs.rs/watchexec/2.0.0-pre.2/watchexec/paths/fn.summarise_events_to_env.html) returns a `HashMap<&str, OsString>` rather than `HashMap<&OsStr, OsString>`, because the expectation is that the variable names are processed, e.g. in the CLI: `WATCHEXEC_{}_PATH`. `OsStr` makes that painful for no reason (the strings are static anyway).
- The [`Action`](https://docs.rs/watchexec/2.0.0-pre.2/watchexec/action/struct.Action.html) struct's `events` field changes to be an `Arc<Vec<Event>>` rather than a `Vec<Event>`: the intent is for the events to be immutable/read-only (and it also made it easier/cheaper to implement the next change below).
- The [`PreSpawn`](https://docs.rs/watchexec/2.0.0-pre.2/watchexec/action/struct.PreSpawn.html) and [`PostSpawn`](https://docs.rs/watchexec/2.0.0-pre.2/watchexec/action/struct.PostSpawn.html) structs got a new `events: Arc<Vec<Event>>` field so these handlers get read-only access to the events that triggered the command.

## v2.0.0-pre.1 (2021-12-21)

- MSRV bumped to 1.56
- Rust 2021 edition
- More documentation around tagged filterer:
	- `==` and `!=` are case-insensitive
	- the mapping of matcher to tags
	- the mapping of matcher to auto op
- Finished the tagged filterer:
	- Proper path glob matching
	- Signal matching
	- Process completion matching
	- Allowlisting pattern works
	- More matcher aliases to the parser
	- Negated filters
	- Some silly filter parsing bugs
	- File event kind matching
	- Folder filtering (main confusing behaviour in v1)
- Lots of tests:
	- Globset filterer
	- Including the "buggy"/confusing behaviour of v1, for parity/compat
	- Tagged filterer:
		- Paths
		- Including verifying that the v1 confusing behaviour is fixed
		- Non-path filters
		- Filter parsing
	- Ignore files
	- Filter scopes
	- Outcomes
	- Change reporting in the environment
		- ...Specify behaviour a little more precisely through that process
- Prepare the watchexec event type to be serializable
	- A synthetic `FileType`
	- A synthetic `ProcessEnd` (`ExitStatus` replacement)
- Some ease-of-use improvements, mainly removing generics when overkill

## v2.0.0-pre.0 (2021-10-17)

- Placeholder release of v2 library (preview)

## v1.17.1 (2021-07-22)

- Process handling code replaced with the new [command-group](https://github.com/watchexec/command-group) crate.
- [#158](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/issues/158) New option `use_process_group` (default `true`) allows disabling use of process groups.
- [#168](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/issues/168) Default debounce time further decreased to 100ms.
- Binstall configuration and transitional `cargo install watchexec` stub removed.

## v1.16.1 (2021-07-10)

- [#200](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/issues/200): Expose when the process is done running
- [`ba26999`](https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec/commit/ba26999028cfcac410120330800a9a9026ca7274) Pin globset to 0.4.6 to avoid breakage due to a bugfix in 0.4.7

## v1.16.0 (2021-05-09)

- Initial release as a separate crate.
